blog: November Community Gems (#3004)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2021-10-30-november-21-community-gems.md

│ │ ╟ 93d015d             │    2 │ 0.83197 │ 0.41333 │ 0.36851 │   3.4259 │ 0.001 │ 0.09     │
│ │ ╟ d474c42             │    1 │ 0.79918 │ 0.43333 │ 0.46612 │    3.286 │ 0.001 │ 0.09     │
│ ├─╨ 1582b4b             │    0 │ 0.52869 │    0.39 │ 0.94102 │   2.5967 │ 0.001 │ 0.09     │
└─────────────────────────┴──────┴─────────┴─────────┴─────────┴──────────┴───────┴──────────┘
```

### [What's the recommended way to remove data that has been imported using `dvc import`?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/898462029650735134)

Great question @MadsO!

This works the exact same as when you've added data with `dvc add`. So to remove
data, you would run this command:

```dvc
$ dvc remove
```

### [How can I associate my Tensorboard experiment results, metrics, configs, etc. with DVC versioned datasets?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/901272438468407326)

There are a few approaches you can take to work with DVC datasets and
Tensorboard.

If you want to keep running your experiments with Tensorboard, you can use
`dvc import` to associate the experiment results and metrics with your datasets.

> 

Reviewer: TBH, I'm pretty confused by this question, and I'm not sure I understand what was asked or how the answers are applicable. How does `dvc import` associate the experiment results and metrics with the datasets? It's pretty hard to tell from the user's Q&A, so I'm not really sure what to say here.

Author: 🤔 Would it make more sense if we just highlighted that DVCLive here and removed the `dvc import` reference?

Reviewer: Yes, I think it makes more sense, but I'm still not sure whether it actually answers the question because without more context I'm not really sure what the question was. Could we consider a different question or dropping this one?

Reviewer 2: I remember the question from support dutty:

> We have a dataset_gen repository dedicated to generating/versioning large JSON datasets.  We recently began using DVC.  Now, we have multiple model training repositories that uses datasets generated/versioned by said dataset_gen repo.  Each model training repo uses Tensorboard for saving Experiment results/metrics/hyperparameters etc.  How should I associate an Experiment with a DVC versioned dataset?  I can think of logging the dataset_gen git commit hash to tensorboard but I feel there must be a better way.  Please let me know if you have a better way!

Before I got the chance to ask for more info user answered to himself:

> Solution found: dvc import

And I just added a little promotion of dvc exp and DVCLive.

I think that in this case the question was formulated strangely. 

My understanding of the user setup is that he has 2 separate repos, one for the dataset and others for experimentation. I think that he just found that using `dvc import` would generate a `.dvc` file on his experimentation repo so he can just log that to TensorBoard or track by git in that repo.

I'm not sure how they were importing the dataset before using `dvc import` as he didn't share more details for the setup.

Author: Ah, I see. I'll just remove this question and replace it with a different one. Thanks y'all!

Reviewer: Thanks, @flippedcoder!

Or you could check out the `dvc exp` features. This lets you run the experiments
and track everything with just DVC.

There's also the [DVCLive](https://dvc.org/doc/dvclive) library that will let
you store your Tensorboard metrics and plots in the DVC format so they will be
tracked and associated with the dataset and the DVC pipeline.

Thanks for this awesome question @jackkwok!

### [When I run the `dvc remove` command, does it only remove .dvc files?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/905382438786715648)

A really good question from @flowy!

That is correct. Running `dvc remove` only removes DVC tracked files and
directories. It will also remove the entry from `.gitignore` and handles the
`dvc.yaml`.

If you still see a directory after you've removed a file from DVC, that is
because it's tracked by Git, not DVC.

For example, if you run something like `dvc remove folder_name/file.dvc`, only
the `.dvc` file will be removed. You'll be left with an empty directory.

You will still have to remove the folder via Git with a command like:

```dvc
$ git rm -r folder_name

> ```

Reviewer: This all assumes an empty directory. What if I don't have an empty directory?

Reviewer 3: Git doesn't track empty directories at all.

```suggestion
If you still see a directory after you've removed a file from either DVC or Git,
that is because neither removes empty directories from your filesystem.

For example, if you run something like `dvc remove folder_name/file.dvc`, only
the `.dvc` file will be removed. If there is nothing else in the folder, you'll be left
with an empty directory. You can remove it with a command like:

```dvc
$ rmdir folder_name
```
```
